Hey and welcome
to Making an AutoMortar! What do I mean by that? Well I'm terribly excited
by this one, because look we're going to make a Dalek like AutoMortar thingy. Pretty ugly,
I know. It's a placeholder asset that's actually going to shoot at us, and it's going to use
exactly the same aiming component and AI controller as the tank does.
We're not even going to open VisualStudio in this video. So, well we are,
because we're going to fix the tank aiming bug, but after that, we're not going to reopen it. So I'll see you in there!
I can't wait to get into this challenge, it's going to be amazing to be
reusing our code from the previous section! So,
well from the tank, the TankAimingComponent and the TankAIController. I'm going to
get rid of the AITanks. We're not really talking about AI tanks here, we're
talking about mortars, and I'm also just going to move this player start point.
One way would be to go to the Top view, move it over here somewhere,
maybe then go to the Left view, bring it down to near the ground,
back to Perspective, check it all works, and there's
our tank! So this can be our playground for the auto-mortars. Now, before I
carry on, let's look at where -X is in the world. -X is behind
me, kind of along the line of this shadow, directly behind me if you look at this down at the bottom-left
here. Let me show you a bug with the aiming, I mentioned it a few videos ago with
the voice over and an annotation, about three videos back, now I want to show you it.
When I aim to -X in the world space,
we get a problem with our aiming. Now let's just find out which way is -X.
It's a bit further around. There you go! As soon as
I get to -X, look what happens, it starts going completely the wrong way.
And if I let the barrel move all the way to just before I'm pointing down
-X, let's go right a little look at that, it goes completely the long way
around. How silly! So let's go into VisualStudio! In fact, it's the last time we need to go
into VisualStudio, for this challenge. And what we need to be doing is, rather than just saying Delta
Rotator.Yaw is less than 180, what we need to be doing is
putting in the FMath::Abs, I forgot that previously. So this takes
the absolute value of the Yaw and asks the question, is the
absolute value of the Yaw less than 180?
If it is we Yaw, otherwise, basically,
we "// Avoid going the long way",
by going
backwards. So if we get a DeltaRotator.Yaw out that is
more or less than -180 or more than
180 then that's silly, we're trying to go the wrong way around. So
what we do is, we just go the other way. So this tests for values of more than
180. Reflex angles, I think you call them. OK, so what you want to put in is
FMath::Abs around the (DeltaRotator.Yaw). Let's compile that up!
Now we'll confidently close VisualStudio, because for your project
and for getting the auto-mortar working, we don't even need to open VisualStudio
because our code is going to be reusable. OK, let's see if we
exhibit the same behavior now, as when we point toward -X. I think you can already
see that we're not, the barrel hasn't started changing direction at all.
Perfect! So we fixed the aiming code, that's quite an important aspect! Before
you start this challenge, let me just show you the code change,
it's simply that and a comment. OK fantastic!
So I think that you can assemble the auto-mortar yourself. If you
look in the lecture resources, we have a mortar placeholder.zip
file. If you go open that mortar placeholder.zip
file, in your Downloads, you'll find it has a body which corresponds to
the tank's body, a dome which corresponds to the tank's
turret, and a barrel which corresponds to the tank's barrel. There's also
the .blend file, Blender file, I used to make this ugly placeholder asset,
in case you want it or in case you want to make it prettier. Maybe later in the section, if a student makes
a great mortar, we'll replace it. That will be good. So they are
the parts that you're going to need. Now if we look at the tank blueprint just
briefly, before I put you into your challenge, you'll realize that we can make up this
mortar in a very similar way. That will be the body, which is just a cylinder. This will be
the dome, and then the barrel will become the Barrel.
And when you do it, your base object is going to want to be
the body, and it's going to be a Static Mesh, just like the tank. Then, we're going to have the dome,
which will be of type (Tank Turret). Use the Tank Turret type, because,
of course, it's got code in it. We'll rename all these things later, once we've proven that
we're able to repurpose them. So you'll have a Static Mesh, called Body at the base
and a Turret and then a Barrel, also of type (Tank Barrel). No Left Track,
no Right Track, no Movement Component, but we will have a TankAimingComponent,
and then, we'll Initialize it just like we did before, not the Movement Component but this stuff here
we will Initialize by pointing it to the Barrel and the dome.
And then, on the TankAimingComponent... Sorry, on Tank itself, which will actually be
a mortar in this case, and it'll be at this level, you will be able to
choose the AI Controller class, and you'll see that previously in the Tank it's set to TankAI
Controller, the C++ class, just do the same thing. OK
fantastic! I think that's enough of an overview and enough clues for you.
Also, you're going to want to use sockets. So the body's going to want a socket in a very similar place, in the top in
the middle. Then, the dome's going to want a socket in the middle of the dome,
touching the body there. Well it's not going to have a socket, but it's going to attach to
that socket on the base, and then, 20 centimeters above the center of the
cylinder is where I put my socket for my barrel. So that's the only thing you need to know, you have
one socket on the bottom of the body, and then you attach the
dome to that, and then 20 centimeters up inside the dome, right in the center of it,
I have a barrel socket. So great
integration challenge for you coming up. You're going to use all of the knowledge that you've
used so far, almost, and assemble the auto-mortar. So look at how the
Tank Bluepri?nt's constructed, put the mortar together in a very similar way,
use the TankAimingComponent, associate it with the TankAIController.
Don't worry, we'll rename these classes that no longer make sense, a little bit later, make them more
generic but let's prove they're reusable first, and, as a bonus, get
the auto-mortar actually working. So all I want you to do is just assemble
the sockets and parts, but if you can go as far as getting it actually working and placing
a couple in the world then, good job to you! This gives you lots of scope! If all you
manage to do is import a single static mesh I'm happy; if you can get it
working, I'm even more happy! It doesn't matter, just work to your ability! So
go ahead, take your time, see if you can make it work, see if you can put all the
information together, and I'll see you in a moment.
OK welcome back, let's get this done! I'm not 100%
sure I'll be able to get this done in this video, so if we get to 10 o?r about 15
minutes I'll stop and split it into another video, nice and simple. So the first thing I'm going to do
is make a folder, and I'm just going to call it Mortar,
and then, I'm going to go to this Mortar folder and I'm going to import
some assets, and I'm going to go get those assets from my Downloads,
and they're not there, because I haven't unzipped the .zip file. So it's very simple,
not rocket science. How do you unzip a .zip file? Extract All!
I'm used to the Mac. There you go! So now we have it, let's
import all of them! Why not?! I'm going to Import All
confidently. It's telling me there's no smoothing information but I don't mind. Here we go, we've
got the parts. Now because I've set the origins of these parts properly, we should be
pretty simple to assemble. So let's make a new blueprint!
New Empty Blueprint Class. Now what did you do when you got here?
What type did you base this on? Did you do it on Actor? Well that would have been reasonable,
but the problem is that if you used Actor, then you wouldn't have been able to access
any of the AI code for the aiming, so we do actually need Pawns. So if you
chose Actor it's not a problem, let me show you have to change it once I've made this class.
Auto-morter or just mortar? I'm just going to call it Mortar_BP.
So there's my Mortar_BP!
If you've chose the wrong class, go to Class Settings, Parent Class, and just change it there,
nice and simple. OK great! So what are we going to do? We're going to add a Static
Mesh, to start with. That Static Mesh is going to be called the Body.
I can make it the root component, so dragging it over the default scene root.
There it is! Go and choose the Body, mortar_body.
There it is! And that's the beginnings of it, so there you go!
We'll put a material on this in a minute. Now, I'm going to add a turret,
TankTurret. Of course, we'll need to change the name of that later, but that's OK.
I'm going to call it Dome, but it is of type (Tank Turret), because that's got
code with it, it does something, it's a rich class. And then, where's this
Dome going to go? Currently, well it doesn't even have a mesh, so let's add the mesh on the right-hand
side, under Details. It may not be on the right for you. But I don't want to position it like this. What I want to
do is go to the Body and I'm going to add a socket under
the Socket Manager. You can get that from the Window menu. I'm going to call it
Dome, and I'm going to position it roughly by eye, and then, realize that I
scaled these things nicely for you. So it is actually 2 meters high
or 200 centimeters off the ground. So that socket's
0, 0, 200, and let's just eyeball that.
There it is, W, S, A, D, while holding the Right Mouse Button is how I'm moving
around! Great! So back to the Mortar Blueprint!
Where do we want this Dome? We just choose the parent socket Dome! That will
only be in your list if you've correctly childed
the Dome to the Body. Now, if you still have an offset, it's because of the location. The Dome wants to have
no location 0, 0, 0, and then, it wants to be
parent socketed to the Dome socket of the Body,
and the Dome needs to be a child of the Body. OK let's go again! We have a Barrel
class, don't we? Let's take the (Tank Barrel) class, child it to the Dome,
call it a Barrel. Now we better go,
before we try and position that Barrel, we'll give it a
Barrel Static Mesh, mortar_barrel. There it is! Don't try and position it in here.
In fact, you should probably reset its location in here. That looks roughly right but don't be fooled, it's not
right. We need to go to our mortar_dome,
create a socket, and I said I put that 20 centimeters up from the center,
in the middle. Now you can put it where you like, but I'm putting it 20 centimeters
up like that. Save it and back
to the Mortar Blueprint. We can socket it. Off we
go! Great! Now you can test this whole guy, by going into the rotate mode with the
E key, and you notice that if you childed right, that the top moves around
and takes the Barrel with it and that the Barrel rotates like that.
So we have the beginnings of it! I'm just going to apply a rust texture to
all of this, because I think that anything that sits out in the landscape for too long will become rusty.
And this is what I call a placeholder asset, it's an ugly programmer's asset.
We've put something together that's going to represent the function of the mortar, with
very basic Blender skills, and I've provided you with the assets.
And of course, in reality either you or somebody else needs to go off and
get much better skills, unless you're going for this art style [laughs]. If you
call it that! So we have those bits together, that's pretty
cool isn't it?! So what do we do? Well we go into the Event Graph, and we need to run the
Initialize don't we? So how do we do that? Well we need to get an
AimingComponent. So I'm adding an AimingComponent to the mortar,
bringing its reference in, and finding the Initialize method. There it is!
When do we do it? On BeginPlay! How do I know? Because it's what we do on the Tank,
right here! OK, so
that's that! Now what is the Barrel to Set? Well it's the Barrel.
Now it'll only accept this type, with the tick like this, if your Barrel
is of type (Tank Barrel). This of type Static Mesh ain't going to work
and the same with the Dome. Now it's not a turret, it's a Dome, but
close enough, we know what we're doing. It's an analogy. And there we are!
So we have that all wired up now. Now let's click on the Mortar itself!
The other thing we need to do is, not make it a StandardAIController but make it a
TankAIController, so that it's able to aim.
Alright, now I think it's time to go and try putting
one in the world. Do we have a Mortar Blueprint? Where is it? I don't see it!
So let's go search for it! Mortar_BP. I put it in the Mortar
folder. I'm just going to Save All, before we run anything, and let's
dump one in the world. There it is! Now, what happens? Ooh,
my goodness! It seems to be working straight away, look at that! It's not going to work, it's
not going to fire, it won't have a projectile, and we
haven't put a projectile socket on it. So let's sort those things
out! A couple of simple things. Back into the Mortar Blueprint! Tank
Aiming, Projectile Blueprint. Let's use the
same projectile. So that's that bit! The other thing that we're going to need to do,
that we haven't done yet, is on the Barrel. We're going to need to make a socket called
Projectile. Now this is the only time you may needed to have dived into
VisualStudio. Remember that we slightly uglyly, [Laughs] if that's a word,
string referenced the Projectile socket, by the word Projectile, so you best spell that right!
Where are we going to put it? Just a little bit out of the end of the Barrel like that. Is
that the wrong end? Maybe? I don't think so. If it is, we'll just switch it around.
Let's have a go! F11, whoa I'm getting scared already!
So this dude is aiming at me. Oh
boom and he hit me! Awesome! Now is he aiming up? Let's
just hit F8 and pause the game.
Well not even pause the game, I just depossess, and I'm just going to go and have a look at him.
I just want to make sure that his barrel is aiming upwards. Yeah look at it!
Off we go! Pretty straight forward! Hey, now that
is the power of using components! Now OK, we
called it a
TankAimingComponent and we called it a TankAIController,
over here in the C++, but that was good,
because at the time that's all they did right. So there's no reason to call it anything else. You don't want to get
into never going to need it syndrome, which is where you start thinking you're solving all the
world problems in one go. But now we have proven that this thing
can be totally reused, without even having VisualStudio open. Now we'll go
ahead and think about how to rename classes in Unreal, slightly more painful than it should be,
and carry on with our project. So congratulations and I'll see you in the next video!